our view is to John Kirby speaking at
the White House has already brought halt
to the fighting together with a surge of
humanitarian assistance now in order to
extend the pause Hamas has committed to
releasing another 20 women and children
over the next two days we would of
course hope to see the pause extended
further and that will depend upon Hamas
continuing to release hostages the
president has been deeply engaged on
this process throughout the Thanksgiving
weekend he spoke with the Amir of cutter
at a very critical moment to help
resolve an impass on the second day of
the pause and then yesterday he spoke
with prime minister Netanyahu with a
focus on working towards an extension of
the pause the extension that Frank quite
frankly we're seeing today uh his team
then worked on that overnight and
through the morning he was briefed this
morning by the National Security adviser
Jake Sullivan on the ongoing talks to
extend the pause he and his entire
National Security team will obviously
stay engaged on this over the coming
days as we work to implement this
extension of the original agreement as
well as efforts to extend the pause even
from there
uh just a quick update on the figures as
of uh this the morning of November 26
200 trucks were dispatched to the Rafa
Crossing and 137 trucks of supplies were
offloaded by the United Nations
reception point in Gaza making it the
biggest humanitarian Convoy received
since the 7th of October this brings the
total number of trucks uh of Aid and
assistance including fuel to over 2,000
since the 21st of October our team has
prioritized getting this much-needed
relief into Gaza to alleviate alleviate
the suffering of Palestinian civilians
there of course most of them have
nothing to do with Hamas uh and to date
we have assisted over 840 Americans and
their families who have departed and
sought the support of our team on the
ground in Egypt that take some
questions thank you Admiral um few
things here the president uh called
conditional aid for Israel a worthwhile
thought is he actually
considering conditioning Aid or not what
he also said right after uh
acknowledging that was a worthwhile
thought was that the approach he has
chosen to take so far has produced
results and outcomes many of them I just
walked you through in my opening
statement um so the approach that we're
taken with Israel and quite frankly with
our partners in the region uh is working
it's getting Aid in to people that need
it it's getting a pause in the fighting
it's getting hostages out it's getting
Americans out uh and quite frankly we
continue to urge and will continue to
urge the Israelis as they conduct
military oper ation to do so with the
utmost care for innocent civilian life
Democrats in the part in his party who
say we need to start conditioning it
going forward what would he say I think
he would say exactly what he said to
y'all yesterday when he got asked this
question it's a worthwhile thought but
the approach that I'm taking Now is
working the approach that we're taking
Now is working it's getting results the
increasing dangers to US military
personnel in the Gulf um I I know you
outlined in a series of appearances this
morning what happened um but are we we
to continue seeing this sort of let me
put it as way is that strategy of of
dealing with it as it
happens going to continue to be the
Strat you've seen some say there should
perhaps be a more robust response to
these ongoing attacks whether it's from
Iranian back militias in Syria or Iraq
whether it's the houthis is the is there
any thought of changing up how that's
done I don't think we're going to get in
the business of telegraphing our punches
head uh We've uh we've responded uh
forcefully against the threats to our
forces in Iraq and Syria and now uh our
forces in the Gulf region the Gulf of
Oman Gulf of Aiden uh will continue to
do that as appropriate is striking in
Yemen still an option again I'm not
going to sell the gra punches we will
take these steps appropriate to protect
our troops and uh and our forces uh in
the Middle East region I would add that
the Mason is attached to the USS
Eisenhower carrier strike Group which
the president dispatched to the region
specifically to address the increase in
the
tensions uh any possibility that
Americans would be among the 20 that we
release over the next few days well we
certainly hope so I mean we're going to
watch this very very closely we're
certainly hoping that another batch of
uh hostages gets released today as part
of the fourth and final day of the
original agreement um we're going to be
watching closely to see if any Americans
are in that group as it as it has come
out over the last three days we don't
really know until you get into the end
game who's going to be actually on that
list and and then even then you got to
watch closely to seeing if who's on the
list is folks that actually come out so
we're watching and and hoping and you
spoke of the president's conversation at
a critical moment to break that impact
can you talk a little more about what
that impact was and how that was broken
his conversations I mean it was really
it came down to uh you talking about
over the weekend it was really more
about the the lists and who was on it
and um and I don't want to get into more
detail than that it's a similar issue to
what we face today uh the reason why
there's been a little bit of a delay
because there was a um a difference of a
view if if you might uh over the the
list and the fact that mothers were not
originally going to be allowed to come
out with their children and that's been
resolved so it really had to do with the
The Who and very very quickly uh the
newly elected leader of Argentina says
he's coming to the US also the DC uh and
he meeting that scheduled with
Administration officials uh with
president with anybody else while he's
here yes president uh
Malay will be coming to Washington DC
largely to meet with the IMF over and
the World Bank over uh um of their
fiscal and economic issues uh but while
he's here in town he'll have a chance to
meet with some National Security Council
uh folks including Jake suiv no plans to
be with the President right no plans to
be with the president the president will
as you think you know be on travel in
the middle of the week thank you uh on
the remaining Americans who are being
held do you have any more clarity on
whether they're being held by Hamas or
with one of these other terrorist groups
no
and you know all along you've been very
clear about concerns that a broader
ceasefire would only benefit Hamas
Sullivan was pretty clear yesterday and
saying that you know Hamas has been able
to gain some benefit from this how
concerned are you that the longer this
truce lasts now 6 days um that Hamas
will benefit and how do you weigh that
it's a real risk um uh you have to
expect a group like Hamas a terrorist
group uh which clearly doesn't abide by
laws of war we try to take advantage of
any pause in the fighting for their own
benefit so we're watching that closely
as well as our Israeli counterparts you
can you can bet that they're watching
that closely uh but and I don't want to
speak for uh the Israelis but I mean
this is a calculated risk that prime
minister Netanyahu and his War cabinet
are willing to take in order to get
those hostages out so it's a it's a
balance um and as you've also heard the
Israelis say that once the pauses are
over U they intend to go right back at
military operations and when you say
that you know Hamas has been able to get
some benefits so far is that restocking
resupplying what is that benefit you
know I would just say that without
getting into intelligence issues that
any pause in the fighting uh could
benefit uh uh your enemy in terms of
time to refit to rest your fighters to
rearm them re-equip them um uh you know
a pause in the fighting can can be seen
as a as a benefit but I again I want to
stress and this was always part of the
calculus any discussion of pauses um was
always part of the calculus that that
Hamas might try to benefit from it but
so too have the Israeli people benefited
by the return of of their loved ones and
hostages so too have the American people
benefited now with little Abigail back
with her family so again it's a balance
um and um again I won't speak for the
Israeli Defense Forces but when but but
when they have when these pauses are
over then they have made it very clear
that they're going to continue to Target
Hamas leadership John how many Americans
are still being held hostage and do you
have proof of life we think the number
is um
well it's less than 10 probably in the
neighborhood
of you know about 8 to nine um but we
don't necessarily have firm solid
information on each and every one of
them and why haven't the two American
women who are with the with Abigail what
what happened with that why haven't they
been well we certainly hope that we'll
see them uh in in hopefully today and if
not today certainly over the next couple
of days we want to see them back with
their families where they belong as well
the the lists are developed by Hamas and
then of course there's the Israelis
developed their list of Palestinian
prisons that they're going to release
we're not involved in the specific
drafting of the lists and the
determination on the Masa side of who's
going to come out on any given day
obviously we want to see those two
American women released as soon as
possible the truce being extended two
days what what happens now you want to
get like 3 days next or a permanent
truce what what what's the thing it's
like I said in my opening statement
Steve we're grateful that we've got an
extra two days to work with here that'll
that'll result in the release of 20 more
individuals women and children and as I
said uh right at the top we'd certainly
like to see even that extension extended
further uh until all the hostages are
released that's really the goal here get
all the hostages home with their
families where they belong and we you
know however long that could
take thank you um just to follow up on
the question about M visiting
you mentioned that most of his meetings
would be with the INF but who will be he
meeting at the White House at the NC and
what are the expectations of the White
House for this meeting and more broadly
what are the expectations of the
president for the relationship between
the two Nations I already answered that
question he's going to be he'll have a
chance to meet with Jake Sullivan um and
potentially other folks here at the NC
we'll have to see how that shakes out uh
president won't unfortunately be able to
meet with them because of domestic
travel um but uh obviously we want to
continue
to look for ways to cooperate with
Argentina Argentina is a a healthy and
vibrant partner uh in this hemisphere on
many many issues um and so we're looking
forward to obviously hearing what the
president elect's ideas are and where he
wants to go on policy issues and all
right that's the tail end of a press
conference at the White House by John
Kirby the National Security advisor